Add explanation for XAI & minor doc fixes (#1923)
open-edge-platform/training_extensions: docs/source/guide/explanation/additional_features/xai.rst

Explainable AI (XAI)
====================

**Explainable AI (XAI)** is a field of research that aims to make machine learning models more transparent and interpretable to humans.

> The goal is to help users understand how and why AI systems make decisions and provide insight into their inner workings. It allows us to detect, analyze, and prevent common mistakes like the lack of data diversity for certain objects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is to help users understand how and why AI systems make decisions and provide insight into their inner workings. It allows us to detect, analyze, and prevent common mistakes such as when the model uses irrelevant features to make a prediction.
```

XAI can help to build trust in AI, make sure that the model is safe for development and increase its adoption in various domains.

> Most XAI tools generate **saliency maps** as a part of the process. It is a visual representation, suitable for human comprehension, that highlights the most important parts of the image that the network has focused on the most. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most XAI methods generate **saliency maps** as a result. Saliency map is a visual representation, suitable for human comprehension, that highlights the most important parts of the image from the model point of view. 
```

> It looks like a heatmap, where warm-colored areas represent the areas with main focuses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It looks like a heatmap, where warm-colored areas represent the areas with main focus.
```

.. image:: ../../../../utils/images/xai_example.jpg
  :width: 600
  :alt: this image shows the result of XAI algorithm

We can generate saliency maps for a certain model that was trained in OpenVINO™ Training Extensions, using ``otx explain`` command line. Learn more about its usage in  :doc:`../../tutorials/base/explain` tutorial.

*************************

> Classification algorithms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
XAI algorithms for classification
```

+-------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Single-shot                               | Yes            | Yes            |  No (re-infer neck + head H*W times, where HxW – feature map size)      |                                                          
+-------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Class discrimination                      | No             | No             | Yes                                                                     |
+-------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Execution speed                           | Fast           | Fast           | Medium                                                                  |  
+-------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

*************************

> Detection algorithms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
XAI algorithms for detection
```

*************************

To generate a saliency map for the detection task, we use the **DetClassProbabilityMap** algorithm.
It's the naive approach for detection that takes the raw classification head output and uses class probability maps to calculate regions of interest for each class. So, it creates different salience maps for each class.

> For now, this algorithm is implemented for single-stage detectors only.​

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This algorithm is implemented for single-stage detectors only.​ For two-stage detectors **Activation Map​** (see above) is used.
```

.. image:: ../../../../utils/images/xai_det.jpg
  :width: 600
  :alt: this image shows the detailed description of XAI detection algorithm

> The main limitation of this method is that, due to training loss design, activation values drift towards the center of the object. It limits the getting of clear explanations in the near-edge image areas.​

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main limitation of this method is that, due to training loss design of most single-stage detectors, activation values drift towards the center of the object while propagating through the network. This prevents from getting clear explanation in the input image space using intermediate activations.
```

> +-------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Reviewer: It is good to add to this table Activation Map algorithm (which is used for two-stage detectors).
